In this tutorial, we will respawn all the characters. Every time a new round starts,
we need to reload the characters and spawn them in their starting positions.
Let's create two additional functions in the game mode header file. We'll call the first one ResetPlayers
and the second one ResetOnePlayer. The function will have one parameter - a pointer to the controller.
Characters can be destroyed during the game. We will need to respawn them, but
nothing happens to the controllers . We spawned them on StartPlay and they are on stage throughout the game.
We create a body for each function.
When a new round starts, we need to call the ResetPlayers function. Let's go into it.
We need a pointer to UWorld, so let's make sure it's not nullptr. Information about all the controllers that are in the world
can be obtained through a special iterator that is located in the UWorld object.
The function for getting the iterator is called GetControllerIterator. Having received this iterator, we can create a loop
through all the controllers in the world. We will execute the loop until the iterator is not zero
and each time the loop will move the pointer. To do this, we use the iterator increment operator.
For those who are not familiar with the concept of iterators, I recommend that you familiarize yourself with it in the framework of the C ++ Standard Library.
We already used iterators when we created our own test in the previous section.
Let's call the ResetOnePlayer function for each controller that is on the stage.
To get a raw pointer to a controller, call the Get iterator function.
Let's move to the ResetOnePlayer function and call the game mode function we are familiar with, which is called RestartPlayer.
We pass the pointer to the controller into it. Let's open the code for this function again.
And let's move to the RestartPlayerAtPlayerStart function. If the pointer to pawn is not nullptr, then the current rotation of the pawn is calculated,
written to the SpawnRotation variable, and then the controller's rotation is simply updated,
that is, nothing special will happen - the pawn will remain in its place. If the pointer is null, then the character
was killed during the game and he will be spawned again, that is, in fact, the logic
that runs on StartPlay will work. In an amicable way, we need to do destroy for all pawns
that remain in the game, and then the restart function will work. This logic can be implemented through a
special actor function called reset. Let's check that the controller and the pawn it owns are nonzero.
If the controller has pawn = nullptr, then the restart player function will work as we need.
If the conditions are met, then we call the pawn - reset function.
Let's move on to this function. It is overridden in pawn. The destroy function will be called if one of the following conditions is met:
controller = nullptr, or the pointer to the PlayerState of the controller is not nullptr. In our case, the first condition is
never met, because we pre-check the controller for nullptr. The second condition
will be met, what is PlayerState, we will learn in the next lesson. Let's summarize.
Every time a round starts, we call ResetPlayer, iterate over all the controllers, and call the
ResetOnePlayer function for each of the controllers. We launch the project.
Let's open the blueprint game mode. For the test, let's set the number of players equal to two. Compile.
We launch the project. We are waiting for a new round to begin. Something terrible is happening. A bunch of NPCs spawned. Let's fix this.
Why this happened, we will find out very soon when we switch to visual studio. To fix this bug,
open the AICharacter and in the details panel we find the property Auto Possess AI,
which we have placed in the world or spawn. Set to Disabled. Compile blueprint. We start the game.
And when starting a new round, this bug is no longer repeated.
When a new round begins, our character will respawn, and nothing happens to the NPC.
Let's go to the tree of world objects and enter PlayerState in the search.
As we can see, only one PlayerState was found - this is the PlayerState of our character.
The NPC does not have it, so it will not be called in the Reset function.
Let's see how to spawn PlayerState for an NPC. First, open the AICharacter class and change the AutoPossessAI variable.
Set it to Disabled. Let's move on to the base pawn code.
And in the .cpp file, let's see how the AutoPossess variable is used. Let's search the file
and find the PostInitializedComponents function. If AutoPossessAI is placed in world or spawned,
then the spawn default controller function will be called, so when the game starts, we will spawn one
extra AI controller. At the beginning of the next round, during the restart of this controller,
an additional pawn will spawn, which in turn will spawn another controller, and so on.
All this will happen in the iterator loop, which is why we have a huge number of characters spawned.
Go to game mode base. Let's open the code of the Reset function again.
Destroy will happen if the pointer to PlayerState is not nullptr. For PlayerController, PlayerState
spawns automatically, but for AIController this must be explicitly specified.
Let's go to the AIController class. The Boolean variable that determines whether the PlayerState spawns is called bWantsPlayerState.
We set its value to true in the class constructor. We compile the project.
We start the game.
We are waiting for the start of the next round and now both players are respawning. If you enter PlayerState again in the scene object tree.
Now we have two PlayerState actors: one of ours, one for the NPC.